Hey, all. Thanks so much for being here. Hey, Brian. Hey, Karen.
Hey.
Yeah, super to have you here with us, Karen.
I'm super excited to be here.
Yes, it's awesome. So happy to have you here.
All right, let's kick it off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 258, recorded November 10th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Karen Dalton.
Yay.
Welcome, Karen.
So good to have you here.
It is quite a delight and an honor.
I've been a longtime fan, as they say on the radio, longtime listener, first time caller
of both of your podcasts and books and Slack channels and training.
And so I'm really excited to be here.
Thanks for being part of the community and all those ways.
You and I got to meet down at Pi Bay in San Francisco.
That was a lot of fun.
Yeah.
I don't know if Brian knows.
I arrived at Pi Bay and I was going to be one of the emcees.
I saw Michael Kennedy, who I cherry picked to introduce.
I was one of the organizers and emcees for the event.
I approached him and overwhelmed him.
I'm like, you're a super fan.
And he was like, oh.
So, but he was very gracious about being fangirled
just at the registration table.
- Yeah, no, you were great to help me out with the talk.
Thank you so much.
And hey, it's Anthony Shaw on the live stream.
Hey, says, hi, Karen, great to have you on the show.
- Nice.
Hi, Anthony.
- Yeah, hey, Anthony.
Anthony and I just did a show on Pigeon, P-Y-J-I-O-N,
the JIT compiler that he just released version 1.0.
That talk Python episode will be out today, tomorrow,
fingers crossed, very, very soon.
So stay tuned for more on that.
But let's start with whatever you brought us, Brian.
- Well, I figure we really need to talk about Will McGugan
because, you know--
- Has it been a show since we've done that?
(laughing)
- So just get that out of the way.
So on Twitter, Will asked a general question to everybody,
something like if I've got an open source project
and somebody files an issue with it,
but I have a question about it and I ask them a question
and they don't ever respond for a really long time.
So is there a way to just automatically clean those up
or clean them up easily?
Because we can just assume that the person has figured out
or solved the problem or it's not a problem anymore
or they don't care.
So one of the responses which I liked,
which I thought was pretty cool was a bot, a GitHub bot.
It's actually from GitHub.
It's a bot called Stale.
So it's a bot that closes stale issues and PRs.
And the gist of it, like on the 10, it says,
it warns and then closes issues and PRs
that have had no activity for a specified amount of time.
That sounds perfect.
Configuration must be on the default branch
and the default values will be,
it will add a stale label to issues or PRs
that are with after 60 days of inactivity
and close stale issues or PRs
after seven days of inactivity.
And if an update or comment occurs during that timeframe,
it restarts the clock.
But all of those are not for me,
since I'm an open source maintainer,
but I don't like,
sometimes I don't pay attention to them
for a couple of months.
(laughing)
I would definitely wanna bump that up
to make sure that it's at least within my timeframe
so that my own inactivity problems might not be the case.
- I totally hear that.
I would love to see one minor change,
one more bullet point on the things it does.
Add a stale label after 60 days,
close it after seven days of inactivity.
A comment will bring it back.
But I would love to see this bot put a comment on there saying,
if we don't deal with this, it's going away.
That way, the people who submitted the PR
will get an email.
The maintainer will get an email.
And so you're notified the seven-day clock has begun.
Karen, you're shaking your head.
Yeah, I mean, I've certainly seen it on open source repos.
And it's nice to have that there.
but sometimes it's an issue that's important to you
and you don't want it to necessarily go away.
Like, and I wish there was a way to like say,
this is actually really important to me.
Please don't close it,
even if you can't pay attention to it right away.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
- For instance, in one of the settings,
there's a bunch of settings.
One of the settings is a stale issue message
or comment on stale issue.
So it lets you- - There you go.
They thought about it already.
- That one.
And I think there's exempt issue labels,
labels on issues exempted.
So you can mark something as,
keep this around or something.
- See, I don't have that window up,
so I didn't scroll, perfect.
- Yeah, so it looks like-
- That's what I need.
- Yeah, this looks well thought out then, I love it now.
- Yeah, and it's been around for a while
and it's got like, I think it's only 498 stars,
but it'll be more than that after we do this show.
- That's right.
- Exactly.
- It'd be at least 500.
- Yeah, 499.
- No, this is a great find.
I really like it.
So yeah, good one, Brian.
- Yeah, I think I'm really impressed with GitHub
that they've added so many features.
I use it more than I have GitLab.
So GitLab may have as many, you know, in all fairness,
but GitHub has added lots of cool features
and ongoing development to make things easier.
As you know, many things have evolved,
lots of more features added,
but things like this that make it easier to maintain.
- Yeah.
I'm really happy with the way,
the direction of GitHub these days.
So it seems like it's going really well.
Yeah, I'm definitely happy there.
- I use both.
I like them both,
but GitHub definitely has a focus on the,
or at least it feels like it's listening
to open source maintainers and their needs.
- Yeah, for sure, for sure.
All right, so I wanna show you another one
that I think also may involve Wilma Guggen.
I gotta do a quick check here.
It is called Jut, Jut, Jut.
Maybe if you're German, it's Jut.
I don't know, but we could look at the Pyre project.
Tom will see if Rich is in here.
It is?
Okay, so yeah, it definitely involves Rich and Wilma Guggen.
And what it is, is it's a renderer,
not a interactive environment,
but a renderer for Jupyter notebooks.
And we've had that in BViewer, things like that,
like on the web, but this one is in your terminal.
So here's the scenario, like you're in the terminal,
remote, maybe SSHed into a remote machine,
and you're like, oh, there's this notebook file,
but what the heck is this?
What is it?
I'm like, I don't have a browser or whatever.
And so the way that it works,
let me pull this little animation for everyone.
and have it go is if you're somewhere you just say,
I'm gonna go with jute, jute, give it a URL.
And you can literally give it something off of the internet
and you can even give it like tail command.
So I wanna see the last 10 cells instead of lines
and it uses rich to colorize and style what the notebook has
including the data cells as well as the actual output,
a computation, you know how the notebooks will store
their output from the last time they were run,
unless you clear them, it'll show that as well. What do you all think?
>> I love that. Sometimes you get a file and you just want to
check some introspect some portion of it,
and you can't just do more for cat on a Jupyter Notebook.
>> Yeah, you get something completely wrong.
>> I don't. Sometimes in the space then you're in,
you just want to quickly be able to check what it is and move on.
And so I love that.
And I love rich, that it's, you know,
the colorized terminal is really helpful.
- Honestly, it might have better syntax highlighting
than notebooks themselves.
Brian, what were you gonna say?
- No, no, just I love, I really like the focus
of tools making things usable on command line
because I'm a command line lover.
And I mean, I've got nothing against doing notebooks
on the web browser, but things like this
make it possible to do things like put them in a pipeline
and automate them more easily.
And like this, it's not really automating using the notebook,
but it might be, you might make sure that like something is,
you know, a regression thing.
You wanna make sure that things are visible.
So you can use this to grab one off your repo or something
and make sure nothing weird happened.
So yeah, for sure.
- Yeah, that's good.
And to bring it back around full circle,
Will McGugan out in the audience says,
"Neat, that's a new one for me."
Hey, Will.
Yeah, it's always fun to show you projects
using your library.
'Cause there's a bunch of cool ones out there.
Awesome.
All right, well, I'm not sure what else
I have to say about this one,
other than it was sent in to us by KidPixo.
Thank you for that.
That was awesome.
Keep them coming.
He sent a bunch of things along.
Like I said, you can display the different cells,
like the first five, last five, whatever you want to pass over.
You can also do things like show it to me just in plain text
if you, for some reason, want to copy it
and you don't want the formatting.
Pretty straightforward to use, but also really nice.
All right, Karen, you're up next.
Adding on to the Jupyter thread, one
of the interesting things that's coming out is JupyterLite.
It is being developed by core Jupyter developers,
but it's still unofficial.
And one of the nice things is it's static.
And if you share it with somebody,
they can just go to a webpage and you can just,
you can cache it.
So you don't have to have a Jupyter Notebook server running.
It's a static page.
Obviously there's JavaScript and other elements involved.
And so if you just click on one of those things,
try it with JupyterLab,
takes you to a browser that window,
as you can see, is a static page.
It's going to take a second to come
up because it's got some JavaScript.
If you click on that "Pyalite" and then just do
like an import this to see a standard notebook.
Yeah, it has a notebook tour.
If you do an import this,
which is a standard test to do the Python mantras,
it runs simply and that's all just running in a browser.
So obviously, if you wanted to share things with somebody,
it's an easy way for them to see it.
You would just send them that file and they can
open it up and do some additional things.
It's probably you won't want to run
your core data pipelines in a static web browser window,
but it does allow you to do a variety of things.
There's some sample notebooks included with it that let you do some things.
So you can run through either step by step,
that you can actually add text into,
as you saw, into the window.
So it's a nice feature add to be able to run a notebook
in a browser window and show some examples of your code
in a static way.
I know that people have sent me Jupyter notebooks
or shared them, or sometimes you can see them on GitHub.
There's even tools now that you can do get diffs.
there's a service that allows you to do diffs
of Jupyter Notebooks that you can do that
for your pull request reviews.
But sometimes it's nice to be able to see like,
I would like to change this a little bit
without like starting up a server yourself.
- Yeah, yeah.
We've been able to host these,
we've been able to set up notebooks servers and host them,
but there's issues with letting people run code,
maybe you don't wanna let them run it,
it's only speed only and so,
but this is cool because it will let you run it
in the browser, right?
which is using WebAssembly.
- Yeah, exactly.
And you can have the JupyterLab look or a kind of retro look
which is just very minimalist without that kind of UI.
So it's a really nice feature.
- I've never tried retro lab.
- Yeah, it's just more of a basic like file list.
It doesn't have that nice kind of look and feel
of the newer version of JupyterLab, but it works.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Just run all the cells and it runs, I guess,
in WebAssembly, super cool.
Oh yeah, that's a good one.
Brian, what do you think?
- Yes, a simple pip install and then you run another command
as to generate all the JavaScript and things it needs.
And then once that index file is made,
that directory is made, then it's really easy.
You just open up that index.html on your,
you can run it on localhost,
you can Python start at HTTP server with,
you know, easily with Python three,
so that it will serve that page as well.
- Can even deploy it to GitHub pages
or something like Netlify or some other static host.
- Yeah.
- It's pretty sweet.
- Yeah. - I definitely think,
- I agree that you don't wanna do big,
heavy workloads on this,
but especially for graphing and interactive stuff
and just like tweaking the data a little bit,
I think this is amazing to be able to,
especially for reports and things.
There's a lot of places where this is useful.
- Yep, and you have no security issues
or worried about people running code or messing with it
'cause whatever they do, they're doing this themselves.
- Yeah.
- Exactly.
- Right, there's no little Bobby Tables issues
that you have to worry about
with a static web browser on your site.
- Yeah, you definitely wanna lower your surface area there.
All right, Brian, a bit of an intermission.
- Yeah, let's talk about our sponsor today.
So today's sponsor is Shortcut,
which is formerly Clubhouse.
And thank you for sponsoring the episode.
There are a lot of project management tools out there,
and I've used a ton of them,
but most suffer from a few common problems.
They're either too complex and it's hard to get started
and there's all tons of options all the time
make you confused, or they're too simple
and you really, you can get started on one project,
but you can't use it for multiple projects and stuff.
Or they seem to be like geared towards managers,
but difficult for engineers or geared towards engineers
and difficult for managers.
I think shortcut is different.
So Shortcut is built for software teams
and based on making workflows easy, which I like.
So let's say you have a big scale objectives,
goals and roadmaps, topics in those and items in those,
big goals and roadmaps can easily be tied to teams
and individual work sprints and progress on those
can be easily flow back into reports at the top level.
It's keyboard friendly,
so you can hook up short codes and stuff.
So the UI is intuitive and it's pretty easy to use,
but the things you do every day,
you can tie those to keyboard shortcuts
and make them even faster.
And it has tight VCS integration.
So you can update your task progress
by just adding a comment or a little key code
into your commit or PR, and it flows back upstream.
This is really cool.
Iteration planning is also a breeze.
You can see your team activity when you need it,
but you can see your own work really easily
when you need that too.
And burden down charts and cycle time and lead time charts
are just built in for you.
It's really great to see all that.
So finally, a project management tool
for both engineers and managers.
Give it a try at shortcut.com/pythonbytes.
- Awesome, thanks Shortcut.
Hey, Brian, before we move on to your next item,
that JupyterLite was sent in by Marcel Millicent.
So thank you, Marcel, for sending that over.
- Yeah, nice.
- Yeah, we always appreciate
when our listeners help us do our research
'cause they have all these ideas that we don't know about.
- Yeah, so thank you. - Yeah, thanks
for picking that up, Michael. - For sure.
Yeah, of course.
- Well, ACK, ACK Now, supplies are limited.
No, I don't actually use that.
- Oh, wait, you get more. - Wait, yeah.
I wanna talk about grep a little bit.
I use grep all the time for finding stuff within my codes,
command line tool for finding stuff in files.
And I'm not gonna cover it in the show,
but I threw in in the show notes,
if you don't use grep or tools like grep,
I threw in a couple of examples in the show notes
to get you started real easily.
I think it's useful to find stuff.
One question I did have is like,
I've got a command sequence in the show notes
that I'd like to have people take a look at.
I don't have a screenshot for it, but if I want to find,
like say foo in recursively in all the folders
and directories, I can do that easily.
And I wanna try to eliminate a directory,
like don't look in my virtual environment folder.
I've got a weird thing about using just grep
and then piping it to another grep.
I don't know how to do it easier, so please help me out.
But anyway, this article I'd like to point to
is called Feature Comparison of ACK,
Silver Surfer, GetGrep, NewGrep and RipGrep.
And this is actually really cool.
So it's put out by the ACK people themselves
at beyondgrep.com.
ACK is a kind of a grep alternative that's written in Perl.
But this comparison chart says,
we need more comparison charts like this.
And it compares all these different alternatives
to grip, Silver Surfer, Silver Searcher, sorry,
is AG, AG for silver, it's kind of clever.
But the chart--
- From the chemical symbol table.
- Yeah, and also kind of a play on Silver Surfer,
the superhero as well.
So the chart shows like kind of a whole bunch of stuff
about all these tools, like what languages are written in.
Most of them are in C, but ACK is in Perl
and RG or RipGrip is in Rust.
So that kind of intrigues me.
I've been enjoying some Rust tools lately,
but it goes through a whole bunch of features.
So I didn't really know that these were all that different.
So if you're gonna try something new,
it's kind of nice to see if the thing
that you really need qualifies.
And it's got some high level features,
but then also dives into like specifics.
Like if you have specific pattern matching needs
the output needs, but kind of a cool tool
to decide which grep alternative to use.
- That's cool, I'd never heard of git grep.
That'll let you grep but against a git repo?
- I don't know.
- It says up at the top that it lets you search
a git repository by default, like search where?
Right at the bottom of your screen there?
- Oh yeah.
- That's pretty, that's interesting.
- Git repo by default, oh, nice.
- And it'll search your git history, that sounds useful.
- Yeah, let's try that out too.
- Exactly.
It's gonna make me learn grep.
- But actually, so one of the things I do appreciate
is if people that write tool,
like little tools that are alternatives to something else,
often they do look at the landscape
to find out what else is out there and try things out.
So actually one of the reasons why I'm highlighting
is this is I agree with the author that says,
we need more of these.
Take that research you've done and actually publish it.
because sometimes one of these tool authors
is one of the best people to compare
all the different alternatives.
- Yeah.
This is cool.
Nice one.
I don't use grep nearly as much as I should
or hardly at all, but it seems very useful in this Git.
Like I said, this Git one might make me learn grep.
Karen, do you do anything with grep?
- Sorry, my five month old puppy
is very excited about some Amazon delivery.
- No, it's all good.
We're happy to have your puppy on the show as well.
- Yeah, featuring a five moment old golden retriever.
He's very vocal.
Yeah, I love silver searcher.
I think it's really super fast.
That's my favorite of these.
A long time ago, I started programming
in my backgrounds in molecular biology.
I started in academic publishing
and putting academic journals online.
And so Pearl is close to my heart,
But I'm surprised that, you know, like these Pearl tools that are still around, they still
work perfectly fine.
I learned a lot of Pearl compatible regular expression use, you know, that PCREs, and
I remember asking some years ago, you know, in another language, they had PCRE regular
expression.
They're like, what's PCRE?
You know, it's Pearl compatible regular expression.
So but AG is great.
I think in my world, a lot of people are submitting data
and sometimes you're looking for bits and pieces and things.
And so these kinds of tools are really helpful.
I use Grep mostly because it's easy to pipe it
to something else, but AG is great
because it colorizes your results
without passing a color flag,
which is usually more convenient.
- Oh, that's fun.
- And it's a little bit different syntax.
But I haven't used some of these other ones.
So this is cool to know about.
- Yeah, it's always good to learn about more of them.
- Maybe I'll try all of them, just for the heck of it.
- Nice.
Yeah, all right.
I wanna talk about Airtable real quick.
So Airtable is like Excel,
but it kind of has a database backend.
It's also got like a Trello aspect to it.
So I don't know if people are using Airtable for things.
It also has kind of a Gantt chart
sort of project management thing.
I don't exactly want to talk about Airtable,
but I want to set the stage.
I want to talk about PyAirtable.
So I just had Gwee, the maintainer of this,
on the on-talk Python
to talk about Python and architecture.
And what they were doing, where he was working,
was a lot of things were backed by Airtable.
So PyAirtable is this API to talk to it through Python,
which is pretty interesting already.
But then if you look a little bit more on the docs,
it's got, where's the right spot to go look?
There is under the API, somewhere in here,
there's an ORM aspect as well.
So you can even use
Airtable like an ORM where you create classes
that map to the stuff you're doing over there
and do select statements against it
and delete them and whatnot.
So if people are doing stuff with Airtable,
here's a pretty awesome way to automate it.
I think.
- I think it's great.
Is it done by the same people or?
- No, no, it's done by a guy named Gwee, last name.
I'm sorry, Gwee.
- I just think it's pretty cool to have.
Oh, nice name.
- Yeah, Gui Tolarico.
And he's also in San Francisco.
So he's one of your extended neighbors, Karen.
- Yeah, the Bay Area is big.
- Yeah, he was also at Pi Bay.
- Yeah, well, there was a lot of people at mass.
So even people that are in my community,
I'm a co-organizer for a Bay Area Python interest group,
of the longest-running Python groups.
Obviously, I didn't start it, but I recently started helping out.
And even people that I'm in meetings with every month, and for a number of years, they'd
have to say, "Oh, Karen," even with badges on.
So you try to spy people based on their silhouette, if that's the right person.
- Yeah, and it was outside, so a lot of people
had sunglasses or a hat.
Yeah, it was tricky, but yeah, no, so he was there.
So yeah, he maintains this, but it's sort of endorsed
by the Airtable folks.
It's like listed as one of the independent things
that they might recommend for people doing Python, so.
- Yeah, I think it's great to have Python APIs
for a lot of services, you know,
have a Python client to help support them.
It's really helpful that,
whether it's written by the company or somebody else,
and sometimes it's really helpful if you're a small team
as the kinds of teams, I'm in a research community,
we have small teams to be able to like look at the tests,
look at their code to see how to use it,
'cause sometimes the company's documentation
is not great on how to use their API.
And sometimes these extra Python components
help you understand their API a little better
and what you can do with their API.
some companies are better than others
in documenting their own APIs to be able to interact with them.
But I know that people use Airtable
for a variety of different things
and use things like Zapier to connect it to--
it's like a Rube Goldberg kind of stitching together
all these kinds of services to do a thing at the end,
like make toast.
Yeah, yeah, because you want to let the business people still
just use Airtable, but you need other things to happen
or something like that, right?
So when they insert this, it's going to heat up that thing,
which knock over a cup, which will then trigger an API,
like that kind of thing.
- Yeah, yeah, or send a meeting invite.
So.
- One of the things I like is if like a company
that's using one of these tools, having a Python API
allows individual hackers like me to be able to just say,
how do I find just the stuff I need to care about?
And I can write my own little application
just to pull out the bits that I need to care about
and do it on the command line
and probably use a rich if I doing that and--
- And only grep air table for things to do assigned to Brian.
- Yeah, no, yeah, I've actually done that.
You can search within GitHub itself
or sometimes I'll clone it
and kind of grep around for some keywords
that might help me figure out
what I need to do a little bit faster.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
And Neil Heather out there, just giving a quick shout out
to Bay Piggy's, the meetup group out there, awesome.
Very, very cool.
All right.
- We have, we're pretty fortunate in the Bay Area
that we have a several different,
from all the way from down in Santa Cruz.
So for people who don't know that, you know,
the Bay Area is, or depending on how you're looking at it,
you know, the San Francisco Bay,
and there's meetup groups and Python groups all along,
and we're kind of a mid to South Peninsula.
There's all the way from up from Santa Cruz
to up to SF Python, which runs Pi Bay,
Grace Law, and there's other ones in the North Bay.
So we're pretty fortunate to have a lot of
really rich, strong Python community.
- Yeah, a lot of great local stuff going on there for sure,
which is no surprise in San Francisco.
- But it's also necessary because
even though things are close together,
you can't get there from here usually.
- They're separated far by time, if not by distance.
- Yeah.
The traffic is starting to pick up again, for sure.
- Yeah, same here.
All right, Karen, you wanna do our last item here?
Touch one more time on some notebook things?
- Yeah, one of the ways if you're part of a team,
everyone probably knows about the Black Formatter
that helps you make opinionated decisions
or it makes opinionated decisions for you
about how things should be formatted
so your team's a little bit more streamlined.
And now Marco Garelli has,
who is a creator of a package called NBQA for notebook QA
that did things like I sort and other things,
has added into the black formatter itself
an ability to do black formatting on notebooks,
which is great because then it's part of the core package
and the support will be even richer, very powerful.
So you can just run, once you've installed it,
there's a command there shown on the screen,
pip install black,
that you can run black on a notebook.
- Yeah, there's probably some hotkey or something
like within Jupyter itself, right?
- Say that again?
- There's probably like some kind of little icon
or hotkey or something in there automatically, right?
I would guess.
- I don't know.
I've run it on the command line
and the kind of instructions have it run on a command line.
I don't know if you can run it on itself.
It would be like, you know,
modifying an array that you're iterating over.
I don't know.
- Oh no, I guess I have it backwards.
Right, 'cause this is actually--
- You can even run that yourself.
- Yeah, this is actually going into black,
not into Jupyter, right?
So yeah, so it's more,
- Right, yeah. - Go from the black side, got it.
- Yeah, you're running it against a notebook
to apply black formatting to a notebook itself.
- Yeah, but at this point,
how long until somebody puts a button into Jupyter
to do this?
- Yeah, I imagine that certainly can happen.
I think that you have, like in VS Code,
you already can apply black
or other kinds of PEP 8 formatting within something.
So I imagine that totally makes sense
you'd be able to apply it.
But I guess I think about it in that sense.
It's not the notebook itself that's
applying that standardization.
It's a package running against whatever kind of thing
that you're using, whether it's PyCharm or VS Code
or some other tool.
So I still think it's running against it,
rather than the notebook itself changing itself,
like spinning around like Wonder Woman
and becoming a super sorted, I sort, package import.
Absolutely.
- Yeah, this is cool, I really like this.
I've always thought that the notebooks lacked
a little bit of coding assistance.
- Standardization too.
- Yeah, yeah, and also black brings that, right?
But I felt like, if you type a thing dot,
it doesn't pull up any autocomplete.
You have to do the research to know,
well, now I have to proactively hit tab
to trigger an autocomplete.
And also formatting is not just a hotkey
for format my code or command palette thing
to format my code as easily.
- Yeah, I imagine that, you know,
we're lucky that the Jupyter community is really rich
and people are committed to it and enhancing on it.
I know that there's other kinds of notebook systems
that are being developed by places like Netflix
where they're like, what is the bare bones we can do
so that our data scientists can run something else?
but the Jupyter notebook community is really extensively used.
The community is very active.
So I'm glad that things like this are being added
to enhance its usability and readability
and standardize it in an easier way for everyone.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well done, Marco.
All right, Brian, I think that brings us to the extras.
- Extras?
- Yeah.
- Got any extras you wanna throw out there?
- No, I just, I'm not gonna put a link or anything,
but I just wanted to comment.
Some of the times I've been giggling today
is because Anthony Shaw's on the show
and we talked about Pigeon briefly.
And every time I hear about Pigeon,
I think of the Bert and Ernie skit with doing the Pigeon.
I don't know if anybody else remembers that,
but anyway, that's my quick extra.
- Well, I know that Anthony Shaw likes to run VS Code pets.
Pretty sure that's right.
I think I saw one of that.
- I wonder if there's a pigeon in this pet.
- Yes, maybe it could come full circle
and it could be some kind of pigeon in the pets.
- In the pets, beautiful.
- Like below the project settings.
That'd be fantastic.
- What are these pets that you're talking about?
- Let me see if I can find it.
Let's see if I can see VS Code pets.
Yeah, I don't have a link.
I don't do that much VS Code, so I don't know all that much.
but what it is it will literally put
like a little animated animal in your editor.
And it can be simple like this.
This is like a cat that's crawling along
like a git diff section,
or they can be way more complicated.
Like here, like see this one, for example,
there's like a castle and there's a cat
that lives in the end.
Alas, Anthony Shaw says,
"But there is no pigeon on the pets extension."
Well, there's a lot of stuff happening.
Like here, here we go.
There's like a hunting cat in the forest
and all kinds of things.
So, and Chris May out in the live stream says,
yet there's no pigeon in the park.
- Yeah, well, pull request accepted.
- Exactly, exactly.
Who's gonna be adding this?
Anyway, this is how we should bring it around
full circle, right?
- Well, do you have any extras?
- I do, but I always have them.
So let me ask Karen if she has anything she wants to add
or throw out while we're here.
- Yeah, well, it's a general thing.
I just helped out at Pi Bay, I help out at Bay Piggies.
And I just wanna off just tell people,
wherever your community is,
they're always looking for lightning talks.
It's good practice.
It's as both of you know, Michael and Brian,
that coming up with show ideas or meetup talks
and finding speakers is a challenge.
And so, you know, offering something
that you wanna talk about is good practice
and the people in the communities around you
are really supportive and welcoming.
And a lightning talk's great practice.
It gives you feedback.
And I know that for somebody who talked at Bay Piggies
and also for some of the speakers at Pi Bay,
you know, I've been willing to work with them
on their slides and talk to them
how to give the talk and everything.
It's great practice, both professionally
and then you have a recording of what you talked about.
So you contribute in code or you can contribute in ideas
and experience in your learning journey.
Even if you're just starting out,
talking about that journey is really helpful.
Talking about a new package that came out
and you guys are doing a fantastic job
bringing things up to date,
but maybe in these other communities, people can do that.
I just wanna just open it up.
It's not just the experts who are contributing,
people at every level in your local meetups can give a talk
and it's good experience, it's good for you,
it's good for them and so I'm just gonna encourage
everybody to volunteer in your Python community.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And if you're thinking about doing like,
submitting a talk to say PyCon or another big conference,
doing it locally at your local meetup with people you know,
with just 10 people, is a really good way to practice that
and get a sense for what it's gonna be like
if you do get accepted and hone it a little bit.
- Yeah, great feedback and great questions too.
So perfect prep, great.
- Yep, all right.
My Apple watch wants me to stand up,
but instead I'm gonna talk about some extras.
So first one is, I've been playing around
with a new password manager.
I use one password, I love one password.
I use it on all my things,
but I've decided that there are certain things
I would like to put on the systems I don't want to set up my super important passwords on,
or I want to share with people, and so on.
I'm like, "All right, well what else could I use?"
So I came across Bitwarden, which is an open source password manager
that also has a cloud back end and mobile apps and all sorts of stuff, browser integration.
So instead of just running a local encrypted file or something,
this is a really good option from what I can tell for setting up.
It does have a paid plan if you want,
but if you look at the paid plan,
the paid personal plan, it's like $10 a year,
or like 80 cents a month or something.
So it's totally doable as for--
- For only 80 cents a month, YouTube can be secure.
- Exactly.
For the coffee that you spilled on yourself,
the price of that you could have.
- I like this, but actually just,
I know you have a bunch of other stuff,
but it's driving me kind of nuts
that even like five or $10 a month or $20 a month
for some things, everything is going towards
these subscription plans and it's like,
it's just storing my password.
I don't wanna pay $20 a month.
- Yep.
This also has a self-hosted version, I believe,
'cause it's open source.
You could run it at your company
if that was not the kind of thing you wanted to do.
So anyway, good recommendation.
I think this is a pretty neat option.
Again, I'm still using 1Password
for my personal main stuff, but this is like my,
I want another one that doesn't hold all that stuff.
And it's pretty neat.
Also Chris May, I'll give you a shout out for Pi RVA
for the Virginia meetup is also looking for speakers.
'Cause Chris as Karen and as we know,
booking people to come for this kind of stuff
is never easy.
- Lightening talks, long talks, whatever, you know.
- What do you wanna talk about?
Show up and help us out.
All right, so Bitwarden, check it out.
It seems cool, open source bonus as well.
This one is both a joke and a real thing.
Okay, so I love it that it all comes together
and it's for Python.
So Patrick Mason, synonymous said,
"The @PSF," this is on Twitter,
"The @PSF is searching for an executive director."
So Iwa has been the executive director for 10 years.
Thank you so much for that.
She's finally retiring or moving on, I suppose.
And so they're looking for a new person,
but that's the real part.
So if you wanna apply for that, that'd be excellent.
The joke is the @PSF is actually
the Pacific Salmon Foundation.
(both laughing)
So they said--
- If you wanna swim upstream.
- Exactly, but here's the thing that's funny
is the Salmon Foundation replied saying,
@thePSF is looking for an executive director.
@justpsf without the is not currently looking for one.
Cheers on a successful search.
So Patrick come back and says, sorry for the confusion.
The Salmon Foundation says, it happens.
We're starting to feel like at the PSF family.
It's not like @Java ever calls us broken heart.
(laughing)
Isn't that fantastic?
- Yes, that's great.
Yeah, good sense of humor.
Now I kind of want to give to the Salmon Foundation.
- I know, I do too.
All right, I got a quick pull up a little bit extra
for this one.
So,
Kieran, this will relate to you as well.
So there's a,
this thing called the Anime Gan V2 Face Portrait thing
that will take a picture that you put up here
and it will turn it into anime
in like some really wild looking ways.
- Oh, wow.
- Isn't this crazy?
- Yeah, I wanna anime me.
- So you can take a picture and throw it up here
and get these.
They're not very anime.
Like I don't think there's exaggerated as anime often is,
but you put a picture up here.
It doesn't work very well for me with glasses,
but I did put up here a picture of my dog.
So there's a picture of my dog,
which I'll try to link to this in the show notes
or something.
And I threw it up there.
- What kind of dog is that?
- That is a terrier mix of like 10 different things.
It's very, very sweet, but I can't really give it a type.
But if you turn it into anime, it looks like this.
Which is pretty awesome.
- Well, I think you should have some kind of battle sword
or a helmet, I feel like.
- It's just way too chill, this dog.
It needs to be much more ready to go in battle.
So anyway.
- With a slowly forming tear.
- Well, go back to the other, the animated, the other.
- The humans?
- Yeah.
So it looks like there's moving.
Can you?
- Yeah, I don't know what this move, I couldn't make it move.
Maybe if you drop a movie or something up there.
There's like an Elon Musk, you know, Bill Gates, anime.
- So I was hoping that you could do real-time filters
so we could possibly do our YouTube all in anime.
- Oh my gosh, if we could do an episode
like once a year where we're in anime,
that would be fantastic.
I would be all about it.
Yeah, they've got Tim Apple there.
No, just kidding.
- Or a Snapchat filter.
You know, I'm really on Python Bytes.
I'm not a cat.
- Exactly.
- Your honor, I'm not a cap, I'm ready to proceed.
- Maybe we can ask Streamr to update that in our new update.
- Oh yeah, that would be fantastic.
All right.
And then finally, a couple versions of Python are out.
The interesting one is 3.11 alpha 2
is now available for people to download.
We've spoken about Mark Shannon's plan
to make Python faster.
Guido Van Rossum has been helping over the last year
and I actually interviewed them.
- Yeah, I interviewed them on--
- Cross, go listen to it.
- Yeah, I recently had, at the moment,
the most recent episode on Talk Python To Me
is Guido and Mark talking about the work they're doing
to make Python five times faster.
This is the first release that has some of those features
in it, and you can test to see if this is any faster
on your code.
So they said they'd love people to try it out.
So double shout out there to that.
All right, I think that's enough time for a joke.
Although I feel like the salmon one
is really kind of also a joke.
But it was also real.
Like if you're looking for a job within the PSF,
the PSF, not just PSF, check it out.
All right.
But as somebody who does testing, Brian,
I'm hoping this one touches your heart here a little bit.
You ready?
- Yeah.
- So here's a picture.
It's a meme type of picture and it has some text on it.
It says, "Hot fix in production."
Could you describe that for our audience, please?
- This is an awesome picture.
So you've got like a drainage pipe coming out in the water
and it's clearly not attached to,
there's, and then it kind of,
it's coming out at an angle,
then going down, the pipe goes down, straight down.
- It's supposed to be connected as one big pipe,
but apparently not. - Yeah, it's supposed
to be connected, but it's not.
But actually there's a hole in the lower pipe,
so the upper pipe actually just directly hit, it all works.
- The broken pipe on top is being poured
into a broken pipe, a hole in a broken pipe
that is disconnected.
So it works.
- Beautiful.
It's a hot fix in production.
Just make it work.
- I'm guessing somebody like just noticed the break
and then just popped a hole in the pipe
in the bottom to fix it.
- Yeah, something like that.
Yeah, I feel like this is that rush
to get that broken website.
the website is down type of thing,
running as fast as possible.
Or it could be Facebook
and the whole internal network could be broken
and you have to break out like a saw
to saw open the data center door
because the network is required to open the door
but the network is down
and you got to get in the door to restore the network.
- Well, actually, you know,
- Chicken egg.
- Stuff like this happens all the time
because you've got like a team that finds a problem
but the problem isn't in their code.
It's in like some other component
that happens to be written by the team in Germany
that's on vacation because it's one
of their million big holidays.
And so you just fix it in the other layer
or something like that.
So yeah. - Yeah, absolutely.
That's awesome.
All right, we got a little audience participation
in this joke.
Anthony Shaw says, "Integration tests pass."
And Wilma Coogan says, "Leaky abstractions."
- Oh, nice, well done.
- Yeah, well done, you all out there.
And well done to you, Karen, as well.
Thanks for being here.
- I'm super excited.
I've been a long time fan of both of your work.
And I just thank you for letting me be here.
And thank you for inviting me
after I super fangirled you at PyBay.
'Cause I appreciate both of your work.
Everybody should also help out
these two wonderful podcasts,
Talk Python and the Python Testing Podcast
and Python Bytes on Patreon, as I have for a number of years.
- Thank you.
- Super exciting to be here.
Thank you so much for the invite.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here.
Thanks again.
Brian, thanks as always.
- Bye.
- See you all later.
[BLANK_AUDIO]